[MERL-720] Docs: Add documentation for  plugin filters (#1257)
wpengine/faustjs: internal/faustjs.org/docs/gutenberg/filters.mdx

---
slug: /gutenberg/filters
title: Filters
description: wp-graphql-content-blocks plugin filters available to you
---

Sometimes you want to change or add new types of block attributes that you want to be exposed in the WPGraphQL API.
Below are the different types of filters available to you in the `wp-graphql-content-blocks` plugin.

> ## wpgraphql_content_blocks_block_class

Reviewer: I notice that this is the only filter provided with a header. Do we have others that should be given a header here as well that are unique to the `wp-graphql-content-blocks` plugin? If not, I would suggest removing the header here and changing line 8 to something like:

>  This can be accomplished by using the `wpgraphql_content_blocks_block_class` filter available to you in the `wp-graphql-content-blocks` plugin.

> Allows you to provide a new type that inherits the `WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block` class and allows you to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This filter allows you to provide a new type that inherits the `WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block` class and allows you to use
```

> that class instead for registering new WPGraphQL fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that class instead for registering new WPGraphQL fields.
```

> Here is an example of using that filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of the `wpgraphql_content_blocks_block_class` filter in action:
```

```php

> // We include the type of the Block class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// We include the type of Block class
```

include_once plugin_dir_path( __DIR__ ) . 'wp-graphql-content-blocks/includes/Blocks/Block.php';

// We register the filter here
add_filter( 'wpgraphql_content_blocks_block_class', 'custom_graphql_editor_block_init', 10, 3 );

// We provide the filter implementation here
function custom_graphql_editor_block_init($class_name, $block, $self) {
	if (str_ends_with($class_name, "CreateBlockMyFirstBlock")) {
		return MyFirstBlock::class;
	}
	return $class_name;
}
// We define class of the MyFirstBlock that inherits from the Block class
class MyFirstBlock extends WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block {}
```

The class `MyFirstBlock` needs to inherit from `WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block` as the parent class performs certain background work to register this block with WPGraphQL.

The parent class currently offers two ways to customize it:

> * **Using the `register_fields` template method**: During the Block setup proceedure, the parent class with call this method to register any fields that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Using the `register_fields` template method**: During the Block setup proceedure, the parent class will call this method to register any fields that
```

> * **Using the `register_fields` template method**: During the Block setup proceedure, the parent class with call this method to register any fields that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Using the `register_fields` template method**: During the Block setup procedure, the parent class with call this method to register any fields that
```

> this block needs. If you have provided an implementation of that method in your inherited class you will can use it to register new fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this block needs. If you have provided an implementation of that method in your inherited class you can use it to register new fields.
```

For example:

```php
class MyFirstBlock extends WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block {
  public function register_fields() {
		$this->block_registry->type_registry->register_fields( $this->type_name, [
			'align' => [
				'type' => 'String',
				'description' => __( 'The alignment of the block', 'wp-graphql-content-blocks' ),
				'resolve' => function($block) {
					return $block['attrs']['align'] ?? null;
				}
			],
		]);
	}
}
```

> It uses the `block_registry` instance variable inherited from the parent `Block` type. The `block_registry` is the WPGraphQL registry that holds all the types available the system. We use it to add a new field (in our case the `align` property) for the current block type as specified in the `type_name` property. Other properties that are inherited are the `block` which is the actual block data and the `block_attributes` which are the attributes of that blocks taken from the `block.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It uses the `block_registry` instance variable inherited from the parent `Block` type. The `block_registry` is the WPGraphQL registry that holds all the types available to the system. We use it to add a new field (in our case the `align` property) for the current block type as specified in the `type_name` property. Other properties that are inherited are the `block` which is the actual block data and the `block_attributes` which are the attributes of that blocks taken from the `block.json`.
```

> It uses the `block_registry` instance variable inherited from the parent `Block` type. The `block_registry` is the WPGraphQL registry that holds all the types available the system. We use it to add a new field (in our case the `align` property) for the current block type as specified in the `type_name` property. Other properties that are inherited are the `block` which is the actual block data and the `block_attributes` which are the attributes of that blocks taken from the `block.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses the `block_registry` instance variable inherited from the parent `Block` type. The `block_registry` is the WPGraphQL registry that holds all the types available in the system. We use it to add a new field (in our case the `align` property) for the current block type as specified in the `type_name` property. Other properties that are inherited are the `block` which is the actual block data and the `block_attributes` which are the attributes of that block taken from the `block.json`.
```

> In that case also we need to provide the value in the `resolve` callback. We use the `$block` parameter which represents the actual block data and return the value or any other value we wish to return.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also need to provide the value in the `resolve` callback. We use the `$block` parameter which represents the actual block data and return the value or any other value we wish to return.
```

> If you done everything alright, then you will be able to query that field in GraphQLi:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've done everything right, you will be able to query that field in GraphQLi:
```

> If you done everything alright, then you will be able to query that field in GraphQLi:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you done everything alright, then you will be able to query that field in GraphQL:
```

```graphql
{
  posts {
    nodes {
      contentBlocks {
        ... on CreateBlockMyFirstBlock {
          align
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

* **Using the `additional_block_attributes` property**: Using the `register_fields` method is a bit cumbersome and lengthy. There is another simpler way to register additional block attributes for that block by defining a property `additional_block_attributes` on that class. This property is of type `array` and you can assign the list of attributes as key-value pairs similar to the `block.json` attributes spec:

```php
class MyFirstBlock extends WPGraphQL\ContentBlocks\Blocks\Block
{
    protected ?array $additional_block_attributes = array(
      'align' => array(
        'type' => 'string',
        'default' => 'left',
      )
    );
}
```
If the structure is correct you will be able to query the new `align` attribute:

```graphql
{
  posts {
    nodes {
      contentBlocks {
        ... on CreateBlockMyFirstBlock {
          name
          attributes {
            align
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> The structure of the `block attributes` needs to follow the [attributes](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-attributes/) guide. For example the structure of this attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of the `block attributes` needs to follow the [attributes](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-attributes/) guide. For example, the structure of this attribute is:
```

```json
url: {
  type: 'string',
  source: 'attribute',
  selector: 'img',
  attribute: 'src',
},
```

> This needs to be converted as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This needs to be converted to:
```
